# Book Cataloging Web App

This Flask web application allows users to provide a book's ISBN (optionally by scanning books using a barcode scanner) and generate an entry into a Notion database.

The app provides two forms: one to collect an ISBN and one to collect the necessary information to generate a new entry into a Notion database. Once an ISBN is provided, the app utilizes Google Books API to autofill parts of the book entry form. Once the form is completely filled out, submitting the form will send a request via the Notion API to create a new entry in the provided Notion database.

|Contents|
|-|
|[Dependencies and Prerequisites](#dependencies-and-prerequisites)|
|[Setup](#setup)|
|[Usage](#usage)|
|[Modifications](#modifications)|

## Dependencies and Prerequisites

This app requires the following Python Dependencies:
* flask
* requests
---
This app uses the following APIs:
* [Google Books](https://developers.google.com/books/docs/v1/getting_started)
  * Required for the App: An API Key
* [Notion](https://developers.notion.com/docs/getting-started)
  * Required for the App: A Notion Integration (& Notion Secret)
---
This app also requires the Notion database provided to the app to match these exact specifications:
* Name (title)
* Author (text)
* Series (text)
* Image (files & media)
* Tags (multiselect)
* Status (select)

[Notion Database Properties]

The Database page must [Add the Integration](https://www.notion.so/help/add-and-manage-connections-with-the-api) that matches the provided Notion secret to allow the app to add entries to the database.

The Tags property must also have all the options you wish to write in the entry form (ex. YA must be an existing option for the multiselect property to add a book entry with that tag option).

The application can be modified to match your desired Database specifications by following the instructions in [Modifications](#modifications).
  
## Setup

* Clone the repo for the app.
* Install the required dependencies.
* Provide your Google API Key, Notion Secret, and Database ID as the values of the matching variables in `gui.py`. 
* OPTIONAL: Plug in and set up the USB Barcode Scanner.

## Usage

Run `main.py` while in the code directory.

## Modifications

Any modifications to the properties of the Notion database that deviate from the property prerequisites mentioned in [Dependencies and Prerequisites](#dependencies-and-prerequisites) must be reflected in the book entry generated by the program using the information given by the form. 
1. Once you have edited the HTML form in `book.html` to match the information you aim to collect for the database entry, modify the `create_book_entry()` function in `helpers.py` according to how many properties you have and what information the property requires (as seen in the [Create A Page](https://developers.notion.com/reference/post-page) section of the Notion API Documentation).

